docs/how-to-create-a-complete-bill.md, before:

# How to create a complete bill

## Introduction

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz_small.svg)
][stackblitz]

In this manual you will learn how you can use SwissQRBill to create a complete PDF file and then attach the QR slip to the bottom of the page. We will use some methods from the PDFKit module as well as some methods from SwissQRBill which extends PDFKit functionality with different methods.

The methods used from PDFKit are documented on [pdfkit.org](http://pdfkit.org/docs/getting_started.html)<br/>
The methods used from SwissQRBill are documented in [doc/api.md](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/master/doc/api.md).

The complete source code can be found in [examples/how-to-create-a-complete-bill][source code]. A live version of the example is available on [StackBlitz][stackblitz].

## Prerequisites

To follow this manual you should have a basic understanding of JavaScript and Node.js. You should also have installed Node.js and npm on your computer. If you haven't already done so, you can download Node.js from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
Node.js comes with npm pre-installed.

## Setup

[SwissQRBill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/swissqrbill) can be installed from npm with the following command:

```sh
npm i swissqrbill
```

In addition [PDFKit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pdfkit) is required to create the PDF file itself. Install it using the following command:

```sh
npm i pdfkit
```

After the installation, PDFKit and SwissQRBill are available to be imported to the project. Take a look at the [Importing guide of SwissQRBill](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/importing.md#importing-the-library), to learn how to import the library for the different environments.

```ts
import PDFDocument from "pdfkit";
```

## Creating the PDF

We start by creating the PDF file itself. To do this, we create a new instance of [`PDFDocument`](pdfdocument) from PDFKit and pass it the size of `A4` as an option.

```ts
const pdf = new PDFDocument({ size: "A4" });
```

PDFKit operates with streams. This means that we can't just write the PDF file to the disk, but we have to pipe the output to a writable stream. In this example we are going to use the [`createWriteStream`](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fscreatewritestreampath-options) function of the `fs` module from Node.js to create a writable stream to a file called `complete-qr-bill.pdf`.

The [`createWriteStream`](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fscreatewritestreampath-options) function can be imported from the `fs` module like this:

```ts
import { createWriteStream } from "node:fs";
```

Since the `PDFDocument` instance is a readable stream, we can pipe it to the writable stream returned by `createWriteStream` to write the PDF file to the disk.

```ts
const stream = createWriteStream("qr-bill.pdf");
const pdf = new PDFDocument({ size: "A4" });
pdf.pipe(stream);
```

### Adding content to the PDF

Thats all the setup we need to do to create the PDF file. Now we can start adding content to it.

First we create a variable containing all information we need for the QR bill. We are going to use this data later to create the QR bill, but we also use some information for the address. This information will usually be automatically generated by the program or retrieved from a database.

```ts
const data = {
  amount: 2606.35,
  creditor: {
    account: "CH4431999123000889012",
    address: "Bahnhofstrasse 7",
    city: "Musterstadt",
    country: "CH",
    name: "SwissQRBill",
    zip: 1234
  },
  currency: "CHF",
  debtor: {
    address: "Grosse Marktgasse 28",
    city: "Rorschach",
    country: "CH",
    name: "Pia-Maria Rutschmann-Schnyder",
    zip: 9400
  },
  reference: "210000000003139471430009017"
};
```

#### Adding a logo

It is possible to add raster images like `.jpg` or `.png` using the built in `pdf.image()` method from PDFKit. Take a look at the [original PDFKit documentation](http://pdfkit.org/docs/images.html) for further details on that.

If you have your logo as a vector graphic like `.svg`, it is better to include it as such, to benefit from the lossless scalability of vector images.  
Unfortunately, by default, we can't just include the `.svg` image as a whole, we have to include each vector path separately. But there is a npm module called [SVG-to-PDFKit](https://github.com/alafr/SVG-to-PDFKit) that aims to make this possible.

In this example, we are going to use the [`path()`](http://pdfkit.org/docs/vector.html#svg_paths) method of the `PDFDocument` to add the vector paths directly.

```ts
const logoBackground = "M33 0H0v33h33V0z";

const logo = "M2 2h7v7H2V2zm1.05 5.95h4.9v-4.9h-4.9v4.9zM7 4H4v3h3V4zm16 13h1v2h-1v-2zm3 2v-1h-1v-1h-1v-1h-1v-1h3v1h1v2h1v1h1v-2h-1v-2h-1v-1h2v1h2v2h-1v3h-1v3h2v1h-1v1h1v4h-1v-2h-2v-1h1v-2h-1v2h-1v1h1v1h-2v-1h-2v1h-1v-1h-1v-1h-2v-3h1v1h1v-1h1v3h3v-3h-3v-2h1v1h4v-2h-1v-1h-1zm0 0h-1v1h-1v1h2v-2zm-6 9v-2h-1v-3h-1v2h-1v1h-1v1h-2v1h-2v-1h1v-2h1v-1h-1v-1h-2v-5H8v-1h2v-1h1v-2h-1v-1h1v-1h-1v-2h1v1h2v-1h2V6h1v1h4V5h-1V4h1V3h-1V2h-1v3h-2V4h1V2h-1v1h-3v1h-1v1h-2v1h1v1h1V5h1v1h1v3h-1V8h-1v1h-1V8h-1v2H7v1H6v-1H4v2H2v1h1v1h1v1h1v2h1v2H5v-1H4v-1H2v1h2v1h1v1H4v2H3v1h1v-1h1v1h5v3h2v1h-2v2h1v-1h1v1h2v2h4v-1h1v-1h-1v1h-1v-1h-1v1h-1v-1h-1v-1h6zM5 20h1v-1h4v3H8v-1h1v-1H7v1H5v-1zm3-6v1h1v1H7v1H6v-2H5v-2H4v-1h2v2h2zm1-1v1H8v-1h1zm0-1H7v-1h2v1zm0 0v1h1v-1H9zm5-7V4h-1v1h1zm0 0v1h1V5h-1zm-1 19v1h-2v-1h2zm7 4v1h1v2h2v-1h1v1h1v-1h1v-2h-1v1h-3v-2h-1v1h-1zm9 1v-1h-1v1h-1v2h1v-2h1zm0 0h1v2h-1v-2zm-2-18h-2v-1h-1v1h-1v2h2v1h2v-3zm0 0h1v-1h-1v1zm-2 13h-1v1h1v-1zM21 8v3h-2V9h1V8h1zm1-3v1h1v3h-1V8h-1V5h1zm0 0V4h1v1h-1zm-4 4V8h1v1h-1zm0 0h-1V8h-1v3h1v-1h1V9zm-3 16h1v-2h-1v2zM29 4h-3v3h3V4zM7 26H4v3h3v-3zM24 2h7v7h-7V2zm1.05 5.95h4.9v-4.9h-4.9v4.9zM2 24h7v7H2v-7zm1.05 5.95h4.9v-4.9h-4.9v4.9zM2 10h1v1H2v-1zm27 0v1h1v1h-2v1h2v1h1v-1h-1v-1h1v-2h-2zM3 20H2v1h1v-1zm7 10h3v1h-3v-1zm0-28h1v2h-1V2zm13 0h-2v1h2V2zm-9 14v2h2v2h2v-2h2v-2h-2v-2h-2v2h-2z";

const logoText = "M45.264 20.48c0 .907-.25 1.59-.752 2.048-.49.448-1.2.672-2.128.672h-2.112v-1.216h2.272c.395 0 .715-.117.96-.352s.368-.517.368-.848V19.12c0-.32-.085-.576-.256-.768-.16-.203-.405-.304-.736-.304h-.32c-.79 0-1.413-.23-1.872-.688-.459-.47-.688-1.147-.688-2.032v-.608c0-.907.245-1.584.736-2.032.501-.459 1.216-.688 2.144-.688h2.128v1.216H42.72c-.395 0-.715.117-.96.352a1.131 1.131 0 0 0-.368.848v1.216c0 .33.107.608.32.832.213.213.49.32.832.32h.32c.757 0 1.344.219 1.76.656.427.437.64 1.099.64 1.984v1.056zM53.851 23.2h-2.096l-1.008-4.336-1.104 4.336h-2.048l-1.6-8h1.408l1.296 6.976 1.424-5.536h1.36l1.328 5.536 1.296-6.976h1.328l-1.584 8zM56.634 13.44V12h1.52v1.44h-1.52zm.08 9.76v-8h1.36v8h-1.36zM64.22 21.2c0 .672-.208 1.173-.624 1.504-.406.33-.998.496-1.776.496h-2.064V22h2.224c.288 0 .506-.059.656-.176.149-.128.224-.31.224-.544v-.848c0-.48-.23-.72-.688-.72H61.9c-.747 0-1.307-.16-1.68-.48-.363-.33-.544-.848-.544-1.552v-.464c0-.715.202-1.227.608-1.536.405-.32 1.002-.48 1.792-.48H63.9v1.2h-1.984c-.267 0-.48.064-.64.192-.16.117-.24.293-.24.528v.576c0 .245.069.427.208.544.149.117.336.176.56.176h.224c.714 0 1.258.176 1.632.528.373.341.56.853.56 1.536v.72zM69.814 21.2c0 .672-.208 1.173-.624 1.504-.405.33-.997.496-1.776.496H65.35V22h2.224c.288 0 .507-.059.656-.176.15-.128.224-.31.224-.544v-.848c0-.48-.23-.72-.688-.72h-.272c-.747 0-1.307-.16-1.68-.48-.363-.33-.544-.848-.544-1.552v-.464c0-.715.203-1.227.608-1.536.405-.32 1.003-.48 1.792-.48h1.824v1.2H67.51c-.267 0-.48.064-.64.192-.16.117-.24.293-.24.528v.576c0 .245.07.427.208.544.15.117.336.176.56.176h.224c.715 0 1.259.176 1.632.528.373.341.56.853.56 1.536v.72zM76.237 22.896c-.416.203-.934.304-1.552.304h-.544c-.928 0-1.643-.224-2.144-.672-.491-.459-.736-1.141-.736-2.048v-5.76c0-.907.245-1.584.736-2.032.501-.459 1.216-.688 2.144-.688h.544c.928 0 1.637.23 2.128.688.501.448.752 1.125.752 2.032v5.76c0 .63-.128 1.147-.384 1.552l1.2 1.2-.912.912-1.232-1.248zm-.064-8.48c0-.33-.123-.613-.368-.848-.246-.235-.566-.352-.96-.352h-.864c-.395 0-.715.117-.96.352a1.131 1.131 0 0 0-.368.848v6.368c0 .33.122.613.368.848.245.235.565.352.96.352h.864c.405 0 .725-.101.96-.304.245-.213.368-.512.368-.896v-6.368zM82.3 18.56h-1.424v4.64h-1.392V12h2.864c.906 0 1.59.203 2.048.608.47.395.704 1.024.704 1.888v1.536c0 1.205-.48 1.957-1.44 2.256l2.224 4.912h-1.52L82.3 18.56zm1.408-4.208c0-.405-.096-.699-.288-.88-.182-.181-.475-.272-.88-.272h-1.664v4.16h1.664c.405 0 .698-.09.88-.272.192-.192.288-.49.288-.896v-1.84zM92.916 20.672c0 .917-.213 1.568-.64 1.952-.416.384-1.11.576-2.08.576h-3.04V12h2.848c.95 0 1.643.192 2.08.576.448.384.672 1.024.672 1.92v.912c0 .821-.293 1.44-.88 1.856.694.384 1.04 1.04 1.04 1.968v1.44zm-1.552-6.32c0-.405-.096-.699-.288-.88-.181-.181-.474-.272-.88-.272h-1.648v3.536h1.648c.33 0 .608-.107.832-.32.224-.213.336-.496.336-.848v-1.216zm.16 4.736c0-.352-.106-.63-.32-.832-.213-.213-.496-.32-.848-.32h-1.808V22h1.792c.406 0 .704-.09.896-.272.192-.192.288-.49.288-.896v-1.744zM94.669 13.44V12h1.52v1.44h-1.52zm.08 9.76v-8h1.36v8h-1.36zM99.31 23.2c-.362 0-.682-.128-.96-.384-.266-.256-.4-.661-.4-1.216V12h1.36v9.52c0 .17.043.293.129.368.085.075.229.112.432.112h.32v1.2h-.88zM102.671 23.2c-.363 0-.683-.128-.96-.384-.267-.256-.4-.661-.4-1.216V12h1.36v9.52c0 .17.042.293.128.368.085.075.229.112.432.112h.32v1.2h-.88z";

pdf.translate(mm2pt(20), mm2pt(14));

pdf.path(logoBackground)
  .fillColor("#EA5151")
  .fill();

pdf.path(logo)
  .fillColor("#FFFFFF")
  .fill();

pdf.path(logoText)
  .fillColor("#454141")
  .fill();
```

Because the coordinate system of a PDF is based on points, SwissQRBill provides a utility function called [`mm2pt()`](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/utils/utils.md#mm2ptmillimeters) to convert millimeters to points. Import it like this:

```ts
import { mm2pt } from "swissqrbill/utils";
```

We use the [translate](http://pdfkit.org/docs/vector.html#transformations) method of `PDFDocument` to position the logo 2cm from the left side and 14mm from the top. Then we fill the path with our colors.

#### Adding the addresses

Next, we add the address of our business and the customer address to the PDF. You can use `\n` to create a new line.
Please read the [original PDFKit documentation](http://pdfkit.org/docs/text.html) for more information on how to add content to a PDF.

```ts
pdf.fontSize(12);
pdf.fillColor("black");
pdf.font("Helvetica");
pdf.text(`${data.creditor.name}\n${data.creditor.address}\n${data.creditor.zip} ${data.creditor.city}`, mm2pt(20), mm2pt(35), {
  align: "left",
  height: mm2pt(50),
  width: mm2pt(100)
});

pdf.fontSize(12);
pdf.font("Helvetica");
pdf.text(`${data.debtor.name}\n${data.debtor.address}\n${data.debtor.zip} ${data.debtor.city}`, mm2pt(130), mm2pt(60), {
  align: "left",
  height: mm2pt(50),
  width: mm2pt(70)
});
```

#### Create a title and a date

We also add a title and the date to the PDF using the same methods as above.

```ts
pdf.fontSize(14);
pdf.font("Helvetica-Bold");
pdf.text("Rechnung Nr. 1071672", mm2pt(20), mm2pt(100), {
  align: "left",
  width: mm2pt(170)
});

const date = new Date();

pdf.fontSize(11);
pdf.font("Helvetica");
pdf.text(`Musterstadt ${date.getDate()}.${date.getMonth() + 1}.${date.getFullYear()}`, {
  align: "right",
  width: mm2pt(170)
});
```

#### Adding a table

Most invoices include some kind of table to list the items that are being billed.

SwissQRBill also offers a [`Table`][table] class to make it easier to create tables.

Import the [`Table`][table] class like this:

```ts
import { Table } from "swissqrbill/pdf";
```

The [`Table`][table] class takes an object as a parameter containing the rows and columns of the table.

```ts
const table = new Table({
  rows: [
    {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "Position",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Anzahl",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Bezeichnung"
        }, {
          text: "Total",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ],
      fillColor: "#ECF0F1",
      height: 30
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "1",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "14 Std.",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Programmierung SwissQRBill"
        }, {
          text: "CHF 1'540.00",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "2",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "8 Std.",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Dokumentation"
        }, {
          text: "CHF 880.00",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "Summe"
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "CHF 2'420.00",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ],
      height: 40
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "MwSt."
        }, {
          text: "7.7%",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "MwSt. Betrag"
        }, {
          text: "CHF 186.35",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "Rechnungstotal"
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "CHF 2'606.35",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ],
      height: 40
    }
  ],
  width: mm2pt(170)
});
```

#### Adding the QR bill

To create the actual QR slip we use the [`SwissQRBill`][swissqrbill] class from SwissQRBill. Extend the import statement from above to also import the [`SwissQRBill`][swissqrbill] class.

```ts
import { SwissQRBill, Table } from "swissqrbill/pdf";
```

The [`SwissQRBill`][swissqrbill] class takes an object as a parameter containing the data for the QR bill. We use the data object we created at the beginning of this example.

```ts
const qrBill = new SwissQRBill(data);
```

#### Combining PDF, Table and the QR bill

We now have all the information we need to create the QR bill. Now we need to combine them and add them to the PDF.
Both the [SwissQRBill][swissqrbill] class and the [Table][table] class have a method to attach their content to a [PDFDocument][pdfdocument] instance.

Extend the code to attach the table and the QR bill to the PDF.

```ts
const stream = createWriteStream("qr-bill.pdf");
const pdf = new PDFDocument({ size: "A4" });
pdf.pipe(stream);

const table = new Table({/* Table content */});
const qrBill = new SwissQRBill(data);

table.attachTo(pdf);
qrBill.attachTo(pdf);
```

Both `attachTo` methods are intelligent enough to add additional pages to the PDF if the content doesn't fit on the current page.

#### Finalizing the document

Once our document is finished, we have to call the `end()` method from the [`PDFDocument`][pdfdocument] to finalize the document. Otherwise it will not be possible to open the generated pdf file.

```ts
pdf.end();
```

When you run the code above, SwissQRBill should generate a PDF file named qr-bill.pdf in the output directory that looks like this:

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/master/assets/complete-qr-bill.png">](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/master/assets/complete-qr-bill.pdf)

[swissqrbill]: hhttps://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/pdf/index.md#swissqrbill
[table]: https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/pdf/index.md#table
[pdfdocument]: http://pdfkit.org/docs/getting_started.html#creating_a_document
[source code]: ../examples/how-to-create-a-complete-bill/src/index.js
[stackblitz]: https://stackblitz.com/fork/github/schoero/swissqrbill/tree/v4/examples/how-to-create-a-complete-bill?file=src%index.js&title=How%20to%20create%20a%20complete%20bill&startScript=generate

Commit message:

docs: restore previous position after logo

docs/how-to-create-a-complete-bill.md, after:

# How to create a complete bill

## Introduction

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz_small.svg)
][stackblitz]

In this manual you will learn how you can use SwissQRBill to create a complete PDF file and then attach the QR slip to the bottom of the page. We will use some methods from the PDFKit module as well as some methods from SwissQRBill which extends PDFKit functionality with different methods.

The methods used from PDFKit are documented on [pdfkit.org](http://pdfkit.org/docs/getting_started.html)<br/>
The methods used from SwissQRBill are documented in [doc/api.md](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/master/doc/api.md).

The complete source code can be found in [examples/how-to-create-a-complete-bill][source code]. A live version of the example is available on [StackBlitz][stackblitz].

## Prerequisites

To follow this manual you should have a basic understanding of JavaScript and Node.js. You should also have installed Node.js and npm on your computer. If you haven't already done so, you can download Node.js from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
Node.js comes with npm pre-installed.

## Setup

[SwissQRBill](https://www.npmjs.com/package/swissqrbill) can be installed from npm with the following command:

```sh
npm i swissqrbill
```

In addition [PDFKit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/pdfkit) is required to create the PDF file itself. Install it using the following command:

```sh
npm i pdfkit
```

After the installation, PDFKit and SwissQRBill are available to be imported to the project. Take a look at the [Importing guide of SwissQRBill](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/importing.md#importing-the-library), to learn how to import the library for the different environments.

```ts
import PDFDocument from "pdfkit";
```

## Creating the PDF

We start by creating the PDF file itself. To do this, we create a new instance of [`PDFDocument`](pdfdocument) from PDFKit and pass it the size of `A4` as an option.

```ts
const pdf = new PDFDocument({ size: "A4" });
```

PDFKit operates with streams. This means that we can't just write the PDF file to the disk, but we have to pipe the output to a writable stream. In this example we are going to use the [`createWriteStream`](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fscreatewritestreampath-options) function of the `fs` module from Node.js to create a writable stream to a file called `complete-qr-bill.pdf`.

The [`createWriteStream`](https://nodejs.org/api/fs.html#fscreatewritestreampath-options) function can be imported from the `fs` module like this:

```ts
import { createWriteStream } from "node:fs";
```

Since the `PDFDocument` instance is a readable stream, we can pipe it to the writable stream returned by `createWriteStream` to write the PDF file to the disk.

```ts
const stream = createWriteStream("qr-bill.pdf");
const pdf = new PDFDocument({ size: "A4" });
pdf.pipe(stream);
```

### Adding content to the PDF

Thats all the setup we need to do to create the PDF file. Now we can start adding content to it.

First we create a variable containing all information we need for the QR bill. We are going to use this data later to create the QR bill, but we also use some information for the address. This information will usually be automatically generated by the program or retrieved from a database.

```ts
const data = {
  amount: 2606.35,
  creditor: {
    account: "CH4431999123000889012",
    address: "Bahnhofstrasse 7",
    city: "Musterstadt",
    country: "CH",
    name: "SwissQRBill",
    zip: 1234
  },
  currency: "CHF",
  debtor: {
    address: "Grosse Marktgasse 28",
    city: "Rorschach",
    country: "CH",
    name: "Pia-Maria Rutschmann-Schnyder",
    zip: 9400
  },
  reference: "210000000003139471430009017"
};
```

#### Adding a logo

It is possible to add raster images like `.jpg` or `.png` using the built in `pdf.image()` method from PDFKit. Take a look at the [original PDFKit documentation](http://pdfkit.org/docs/images.html) for further details on that.

If you have your logo as a vector graphic like `.svg`, it is better to include it as such, to benefit from the lossless scalability of vector images.  
Unfortunately, by default, we can't just include the `.svg` image as a whole, we have to include each vector path separately. But there is a npm module called [SVG-to-PDFKit](https://github.com/alafr/SVG-to-PDFKit) that aims to make this possible.

In this example, we are going to use the [`path()`](http://pdfkit.org/docs/vector.html#svg_paths) method of the `PDFDocument` to add the vector paths directly.

```ts
const logoBackground = "M33 0H0v33h33V0z";

const logo = "M2 2h7v7H2V2zm1.05 5.95h4.9v-4.9h-4.9v4.9zM7 4H4v3h3V4zm16 13h1v2h-1v-2zm3 2v-1h-1v-1h-1v-1h-1v-1h3v1h1v2h1v1h1v-2h-1v-2h-1v-1h2v1h2v2h-1v3h-1v3h2v1h-1v1h1v4h-1v-2h-2v-1h1v-2h-1v2h-1v1h1v1h-2v-1h-2v1h-1v-1h-1v-1h-2v-3h1v1h1v-1h1v3h3v-3h-3v-2h1v1h4v-2h-1v-1h-1zm0 0h-1v1h-1v1h2v-2zm-6 9v-2h-1v-3h-1v2h-1v1h-1v1h-2v1h-2v-1h1v-2h1v-1h-1v-1h-2v-5H8v-1h2v-1h1v-2h-1v-1h1v-1h-1v-2h1v1h2v-1h2V6h1v1h4V5h-1V4h1V3h-1V2h-1v3h-2V4h1V2h-1v1h-3v1h-1v1h-2v1h1v1h1V5h1v1h1v3h-1V8h-1v1h-1V8h-1v2H7v1H6v-1H4v2H2v1h1v1h1v1h1v2h1v2H5v-1H4v-1H2v1h2v1h1v1H4v2H3v1h1v-1h1v1h5v3h2v1h-2v2h1v-1h1v1h2v2h4v-1h1v-1h-1v1h-1v-1h-1v1h-1v-1h-1v-1h6zM5 20h1v-1h4v3H8v-1h1v-1H7v1H5v-1zm3-6v1h1v1H7v1H6v-2H5v-2H4v-1h2v2h2zm1-1v1H8v-1h1zm0-1H7v-1h2v1zm0 0v1h1v-1H9zm5-7V4h-1v1h1zm0 0v1h1V5h-1zm-1 19v1h-2v-1h2zm7 4v1h1v2h2v-1h1v1h1v-1h1v-2h-1v1h-3v-2h-1v1h-1zm9 1v-1h-1v1h-1v2h1v-2h1zm0 0h1v2h-1v-2zm-2-18h-2v-1h-1v1h-1v2h2v1h2v-3zm0 0h1v-1h-1v1zm-2 13h-1v1h1v-1zM21 8v3h-2V9h1V8h1zm1-3v1h1v3h-1V8h-1V5h1zm0 0V4h1v1h-1zm-4 4V8h1v1h-1zm0 0h-1V8h-1v3h1v-1h1V9zm-3 16h1v-2h-1v2zM29 4h-3v3h3V4zM7 26H4v3h3v-3zM24 2h7v7h-7V2zm1.05 5.95h4.9v-4.9h-4.9v4.9zM2 24h7v7H2v-7zm1.05 5.95h4.9v-4.9h-4.9v4.9zM2 10h1v1H2v-1zm27 0v1h1v1h-2v1h2v1h1v-1h-1v-1h1v-2h-2zM3 20H2v1h1v-1zm7 10h3v1h-3v-1zm0-28h1v2h-1V2zm13 0h-2v1h2V2zm-9 14v2h2v2h2v-2h2v-2h-2v-2h-2v2h-2z";

const logoText = "M45.264 20.48c0 .907-.25 1.59-.752 2.048-.49.448-1.2.672-2.128.672h-2.112v-1.216h2.272c.395 0 .715-.117.96-.352s.368-.517.368-.848V19.12c0-.32-.085-.576-.256-.768-.16-.203-.405-.304-.736-.304h-.32c-.79 0-1.413-.23-1.872-.688-.459-.47-.688-1.147-.688-2.032v-.608c0-.907.245-1.584.736-2.032.501-.459 1.216-.688 2.144-.688h2.128v1.216H42.72c-.395 0-.715.117-.96.352a1.131 1.131 0 0 0-.368.848v1.216c0 .33.107.608.32.832.213.213.49.32.832.32h.32c.757 0 1.344.219 1.76.656.427.437.64 1.099.64 1.984v1.056zM53.851 23.2h-2.096l-1.008-4.336-1.104 4.336h-2.048l-1.6-8h1.408l1.296 6.976 1.424-5.536h1.36l1.328 5.536 1.296-6.976h1.328l-1.584 8zM56.634 13.44V12h1.52v1.44h-1.52zm.08 9.76v-8h1.36v8h-1.36zM64.22 21.2c0 .672-.208 1.173-.624 1.504-.406.33-.998.496-1.776.496h-2.064V22h2.224c.288 0 .506-.059.656-.176.149-.128.224-.31.224-.544v-.848c0-.48-.23-.72-.688-.72H61.9c-.747 0-1.307-.16-1.68-.48-.363-.33-.544-.848-.544-1.552v-.464c0-.715.202-1.227.608-1.536.405-.32 1.002-.48 1.792-.48H63.9v1.2h-1.984c-.267 0-.48.064-.64.192-.16.117-.24.293-.24.528v.576c0 .245.069.427.208.544.149.117.336.176.56.176h.224c.714 0 1.258.176 1.632.528.373.341.56.853.56 1.536v.72zM69.814 21.2c0 .672-.208 1.173-.624 1.504-.405.33-.997.496-1.776.496H65.35V22h2.224c.288 0 .507-.059.656-.176.15-.128.224-.31.224-.544v-.848c0-.48-.23-.72-.688-.72h-.272c-.747 0-1.307-.16-1.68-.48-.363-.33-.544-.848-.544-1.552v-.464c0-.715.203-1.227.608-1.536.405-.32 1.003-.48 1.792-.48h1.824v1.2H67.51c-.267 0-.48.064-.64.192-.16.117-.24.293-.24.528v.576c0 .245.07.427.208.544.15.117.336.176.56.176h.224c.715 0 1.259.176 1.632.528.373.341.56.853.56 1.536v.72zM76.237 22.896c-.416.203-.934.304-1.552.304h-.544c-.928 0-1.643-.224-2.144-.672-.491-.459-.736-1.141-.736-2.048v-5.76c0-.907.245-1.584.736-2.032.501-.459 1.216-.688 2.144-.688h.544c.928 0 1.637.23 2.128.688.501.448.752 1.125.752 2.032v5.76c0 .63-.128 1.147-.384 1.552l1.2 1.2-.912.912-1.232-1.248zm-.064-8.48c0-.33-.123-.613-.368-.848-.246-.235-.566-.352-.96-.352h-.864c-.395 0-.715.117-.96.352a1.131 1.131 0 0 0-.368.848v6.368c0 .33.122.613.368.848.245.235.565.352.96.352h.864c.405 0 .725-.101.96-.304.245-.213.368-.512.368-.896v-6.368zM82.3 18.56h-1.424v4.64h-1.392V12h2.864c.906 0 1.59.203 2.048.608.47.395.704 1.024.704 1.888v1.536c0 1.205-.48 1.957-1.44 2.256l2.224 4.912h-1.52L82.3 18.56zm1.408-4.208c0-.405-.096-.699-.288-.88-.182-.181-.475-.272-.88-.272h-1.664v4.16h1.664c.405 0 .698-.09.88-.272.192-.192.288-.49.288-.896v-1.84zM92.916 20.672c0 .917-.213 1.568-.64 1.952-.416.384-1.11.576-2.08.576h-3.04V12h2.848c.95 0 1.643.192 2.08.576.448.384.672 1.024.672 1.92v.912c0 .821-.293 1.44-.88 1.856.694.384 1.04 1.04 1.04 1.968v1.44zm-1.552-6.32c0-.405-.096-.699-.288-.88-.181-.181-.474-.272-.88-.272h-1.648v3.536h1.648c.33 0 .608-.107.832-.32.224-.213.336-.496.336-.848v-1.216zm.16 4.736c0-.352-.106-.63-.32-.832-.213-.213-.496-.32-.848-.32h-1.808V22h1.792c.406 0 .704-.09.896-.272.192-.192.288-.49.288-.896v-1.744zM94.669 13.44V12h1.52v1.44h-1.52zm.08 9.76v-8h1.36v8h-1.36zM99.31 23.2c-.362 0-.682-.128-.96-.384-.266-.256-.4-.661-.4-1.216V12h1.36v9.52c0 .17.043.293.129.368.085.075.229.112.432.112h.32v1.2h-.88zM102.671 23.2c-.363 0-.683-.128-.96-.384-.267-.256-.4-.661-.4-1.216V12h1.36v9.52c0 .17.042.293.128.368.085.075.229.112.432.112h.32v1.2h-.88z";

pdf.translate(mm2pt(20), mm2pt(14));

pdf.path(logoBackground)
  .fillColor("#EA5151")
  .fill();

pdf.path(logo)
  .fillColor("#FFFFFF")
  .fill();

pdf.path(logoText)
  .fillColor("#454141")
  .fill();
```

Because the coordinate system of a PDF is based on points, SwissQRBill provides a utility function called [`mm2pt()`](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/utils/utils.md#mm2ptmillimeters) to convert millimeters to points. Import it like this:

```ts
import { mm2pt } from "swissqrbill/utils";
```

We use the [`translate()`](http://pdfkit.org/docs/vector.html#transformations) method of `PDFDocument` to position the logo 2cm from the left side and 14mm from the top. Then we fill the path with our colors. The `save()` and `restore()` methods are used to save the previous coordinates and restore them after the logo is rendered. This way we can change the positioning of the logo without affecting the rest of the document.

#### Adding the addresses

Next, we add the address of our business and the customer address to the PDF. You can use `\n` to create a new line.
Please read the [original PDFKit documentation](http://pdfkit.org/docs/text.html) for more information on how to add content to a PDF.

```ts
pdf.fontSize(12);
pdf.fillColor("black");
pdf.font("Helvetica");
pdf.text(`${data.creditor.name}\n${data.creditor.address}\n${data.creditor.zip} ${data.creditor.city}`, mm2pt(20), mm2pt(35), {
  align: "left",
  height: mm2pt(50),
  width: mm2pt(100)
});

pdf.fontSize(12);
pdf.font("Helvetica");
pdf.text(`${data.debtor.name}\n${data.debtor.address}\n${data.debtor.zip} ${data.debtor.city}`, mm2pt(130), mm2pt(60), {
  align: "left",
  height: mm2pt(50),
  width: mm2pt(70)
});
```

#### Create a title and a date

We also add a title and the date to the PDF using the same methods as above.

```ts
pdf.fontSize(14);
pdf.font("Helvetica-Bold");
pdf.text("Rechnung Nr. 1071672", mm2pt(20), mm2pt(100), {
  align: "left",
  width: mm2pt(170)
});

const date = new Date();

pdf.fontSize(11);
pdf.font("Helvetica");
pdf.text(`Musterstadt ${date.getDate()}.${date.getMonth() + 1}.${date.getFullYear()}`, {
  align: "right",
  width: mm2pt(170)
});
```

#### Adding a table

Most invoices include some kind of table to list the items that are being billed.

SwissQRBill also offers a [`Table`][table] class to make it easier to create tables.

Import the [`Table`][table] class like this:

```ts
import { Table } from "swissqrbill/pdf";
```

The [`Table`][table] class takes an object as a parameter containing the rows and columns of the table.

```ts
const table = new Table({
  rows: [
    {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "Position",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Anzahl",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Bezeichnung"
        }, {
          text: "Total",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ],
      fillColor: "#ECF0F1",
      height: 30
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "1",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "14 Std.",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Programmierung SwissQRBill"
        }, {
          text: "CHF 1'540.00",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "2",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "8 Std.",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "Dokumentation"
        }, {
          text: "CHF 880.00",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "Summe"
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "CHF 2'420.00",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ],
      height: 40
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "MwSt."
        }, {
          text: "7.7%",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "MwSt. Betrag"
        }, {
          text: "CHF 186.35",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ]
    }, {
      columns: [
        {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          text: "",
          width: mm2pt(20)
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "Rechnungstotal"
        }, {
          font: "Helvetica-Bold",
          text: "CHF 2'606.35",
          width: mm2pt(30)
        }
      ],
      height: 40
    }
  ],
  width: mm2pt(170)
});
```

#### Adding the QR bill

To create the actual QR slip we use the [`SwissQRBill`][swissqrbill] class from SwissQRBill. Extend the import statement from above to also import the [`SwissQRBill`][swissqrbill] class.

```ts
import { SwissQRBill, Table } from "swissqrbill/pdf";
```

The [`SwissQRBill`][swissqrbill] class takes an object as a parameter containing the data for the QR bill. We use the data object we created at the beginning of this example.

```ts
const qrBill = new SwissQRBill(data);
```

#### Combining PDF, Table and the QR bill

We now have all the information we need to create the QR bill. Now we need to combine them and add them to the PDF.
Both the [SwissQRBill][swissqrbill] class and the [Table][table] class have a method to attach their content to a [PDFDocument][pdfdocument] instance.

Extend the code to attach the table and the QR bill to the PDF.

```ts
const stream = createWriteStream("qr-bill.pdf");
const pdf = new PDFDocument({ size: "A4" });
pdf.pipe(stream);

const table = new Table({/* Table content */});
const qrBill = new SwissQRBill(data);

table.attachTo(pdf);
qrBill.attachTo(pdf);
```

Both `attachTo` methods are intelligent enough to add additional pages to the PDF if the content doesn't fit on the current page.

#### Finalizing the document

Once our document is finished, we have to call the `end()` method from the [`PDFDocument`][pdfdocument] to finalize the document. Otherwise it will not be possible to open the generated pdf file.

```ts
pdf.end();
```

When you run the code above, SwissQRBill should generate a PDF file named qr-bill.pdf in the output directory that looks like this:

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/master/assets/complete-qr-bill.png">](https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/master/assets/complete-qr-bill.pdf)

[swissqrbill]: hhttps://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/pdf/index.md#swissqrbill
[table]: https://github.com/schoero/SwissQRBill/blob/v4/docs/pdf/index.md#table
[pdfdocument]: http://pdfkit.org/docs/getting_started.html#creating_a_document
[source code]: ../examples/how-to-create-a-complete-bill/src/index.js
[stackblitz]: https://stackblitz.com/fork/github/schoero/swissqrbill/tree/v4/examples/how-to-create-a-complete-bill?file=src%index.js&title=How%20to%20create%20a%20complete%20bill&startScript=generate
